________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

A Gender Analysis of Twitter followers of the Baseball teams Chicago Cubs, Cleveland Indians, Chicago White Sox, New York Yankees and San Francisco Giants.
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Initially I have collected 200 followers each of the 5 teams - Chicago Cubs, Cleveland Indians, Chicago White Sox, New York Yankees and San Francisco Giants and then deleted those followers who have empty “description” fields in their user profile. Accordingly, I had 141 users with “description” fields in my final dataset. At the same time, I have also collected male and female first names from the census.gov url.

Then I have done cluster analysis on the collected dataset. I have plotted the graph (networkBeforePartition.png) in such a manner than each node represents a twitter account and the edges are the representation of the user following the baseball team account. Next, clusters were formed using the Girvan Newman algorithm and plotted in networkAfterPartition.png. I observed that 5 clusters were formed according to the teams and they averaged 28 users per cluster.

Finally, I have classified the dataset as per Male and Female users. In classify.py, I initially labelled the users in my dataset as Male or Female after matching with corresponding names in collected census data. The “description” fields of the users which were successfully labelled as Male or Female were used to train my model to identify gender of the user. The model was trained using K-neighbours classifier and Logistic Regression for various settings (token pair feature, token feature, with & without punctuation and minimum frequency 2/5/10) and accuracy was calculated for each model. The model and the settings with highest accuracy is then selected to predict the gender of those users which were not labelled using census data. In the data which I have presented in summary.txt, the model with highest accuracy was Logistic Regression. 

As per the data in summary.txt, it was observed that approximately 24% of Twitter followers of Baseball teams were Female. As per a Nielsen report in 2014, they stated that Female sports fans make up nearly 35% of fans in each professional sports league and my analysis compares favorably with this data. It should be noted that I had to restrict the collected user count to 200 per each request based on Twitter API limits and a large number of collected users had to be discarded due to the absence of a “description” fields, a larger dataset may have yielded better results corresponding to 30-35% Female users. I believe that such an analysis will be useful for marketers who aim to market to Female Sports fans.
